= lifeline

Methods for creating lifeline tasks. This allows you to write cron jobs that
restart processes that die while ensuring the code is only executing only once
(avoiding the duplication that sometimes happens using the 'daemons') gem.
Both a generic lifeline method is provided as well as methods to create 3
lifeline rake tasks for managing lifelines.

== The Lifeline Approach

For all their history, daemons can be problematic. For starters, mechanisms
for restarting daemons that have failed often rely on a third-party
application like monit which is itself a daemon. In addition, PID-based
mechanisms to ensure only one daemon is running at a time fail in both ways,
sometimes preventing a daemon from starting up and other times not preventing
multiple instances from running.

The lifeline pattern (originally presented to me by Matt Todd of Highgroove
Studios) is a different approach that uses a cron job that runs every minute
as a lifeline to restart the daemon process if it has died. This lifeline
calls ps to see if another instance of the same command is already running. If
it is, the lifeline exits immediately. Otherwise, it stays running
indefinitely (Cron starts all jobs via a fork, so it can run forever without
stalling out cron). The trick is figuring out the right invocation to ps to
ensure you are only checking for apps with the same name. But the lifeline gem
handles all this to you.

Although lifelines can work well for processes that run forever, the technique
can also be used to safeguard any code you only want to run a single instance
of at a time (eg, if you have a cron job that runs every 5 minutes and you
want to ensure it doesn't run 2 processes should the first cron job get
delayed.)

== How a Lifeline Works

More specifically, the lifeline method (and rake task that calls it) does the following steps:

* Get a list of all running processes
* Find the name of the current process by looking for the command associated with the current process id (the $$ variable)
* If there is another process with the same command string, return and exit
* Otherwise yield to run the passed block.

== Examples

  Lifeline.lifeline do
    # some code you want to run in only a single process
  end
  
  Lifeline.define_lifeline_tasks("appname") do
    # some code you want to run in a single lifeline
  end
  
  > rake -T appname

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 The New York Times. See LICENSE for details.
